# Data-Science-&-Analysis-Portfolio by Apurva Salvi

A collection of my Data Science Projects

## Natural Language Processing

### Precision Medicine using NLP

A lot has been said during the past several years about how precision medicine and, more concretely, how genetic testing is going to disrupt the way diseases like cancer are treated.

But this is only partially happening due to the huge amount of manual work still required. Once sequenced, a cancer tumor can have thousands of genetic mutations. But the challenge is distinguishing the mutations that contribute to tumor growth (drivers) from the neutral mutations (passengers).

Currently this interpretation of genetic mutations is being done manually. This is a very time-consuming task where a clinical pathologist has to manually review and classify every single genetic mutation based on evidence from text-based clinical literature.

I developed a Machine Learning Algorithm that, using this knowledge base, automatically classifies genetic variations. 

[Project Link](https://github.com/ApurvaSalvi/Detecting-Cancer-using-NLP/blob/master/Precision_Medicine.ipynb)

## Kaggle Competition

### Bike Sharing Demand

The goal for this project was to see how well can I optimize my Machine Learning Models to get the most accurate results.
#### Result: Achieved a rank in the top 6% of the submissions

Bike sharing systems are a means of renting bicycles where the process of obtaining membership, rental, and bike return is automated via a network of kiosk locations throughout a city. Using these systems, people are able rent a bike from a one location and return it to a different place on an as-needed basis. Currently, there are over 500 bike-sharing programs around the world.

The data generated by these systems makes them attractive for researchers because the duration of travel, departure location, arrival location, and time elapsed is explicitly recorded. Bike sharing systems therefore function as a sensor network, which can be used for studying mobility in a city. In this competition, participants are asked to combine historical usage patterns with weather data in order to forecast bike rental demand in the Capital Bikeshare program in Washington, D.C.

[Project Link](https://github.com/ApurvaSalvi/Bike-Sharing-Demand/blob/master/Bike%20Sharing%20Demand.ipynb)
